Now that we know how we connect our user input to the code, we need to extract the data that the user
entered
and for this, I will create a new function instead of my static data,
I will name this function visual transform since I will transform the data we get in. Here
I expect to get some options which will be visual update options,
so the same options I get here in the update method and the reason for this is that I will call this
method in this public update method and I'm just outsourcing it into its own function to keep the code
here leaner.
I also expect to get a second argument, the host of my chart, of my visual,
so that is of type IVisual host, an interface provided by the Power BI visual tools here which is needed
to call the right methods internally.
So on this method here, I plan on returning the transformed data which will have the same structure we
had before
when I use static data, so the array of objects with value and category so that I don't have to change
all the code down there, I just have to change the ways or the places where I call my static data.
So in here, in visual transform,
I want to get my data. So I can store this in a data views variable, the name is up to you but I do access some
options data views and that simply gives you access to the data the user entered,
it's called data views.
Next I want to create an object which should hold the relevant information about my data.
So here I will name this data info
maybe, it is of type Javascript object and in there,
I want to have my data points which should be an empty array, my maximum value,
this is important for scaling it correctly,
we hardcoded the maximum here, 11 but that's not true anymore,
we don't know the maximum value of the data the user will enter so we will need to calculate it and
that's all for the data info for now.
Next I want to check if we did actually receive some valid data, so I will check the opposite to be precise,
I will check if data views is not set.
So if it is not set, then something went wrong, then I don't want to render anything.
I will also check another condition,
that is if in the data views, the first element is not set and why the first element? Because in the capabilities.json
file,
I will soon add some configuration to restrict the user to only enter one legend dataset and one value
dataset,
so that is something I will do and therefore, the first element is exactly that.
Now it could be that we have this dataset but on this dataset here, we don't actually have the categorical
property.
Remember, that is what we're trying to map it to,
so if that fails, whoops, I also want to quit.
I also want to check that we maybe have the data views and we have the categorical data
but what if we have no categories because that is invalid or the user entered some data where no
categories are there. Or what if
we have a data view and we have the categorical property and we even have categories but there, we don't
have the source property which should be available and that is something Power BI will provide to us,
it will hold some metadata about our data source.
Or what if we have the data views and there, we have categorical but we don't have any values?
So we have the categories and everything
but we don't have values. In all these cases,
so these are quite a lot of checks, in all these cases,
I want to return my data info with these default inputs of a maximum value of 0 and no data points. So
that will then practically render no chart at all, render nothing since we return,
we quit this function but it will also make sure that we don't render anything incorrectly and
that of course here should be data views though. So this is a check you can basically use in your set ups
to check if the data really is there, if you got the data you want to work with.
If you make it through this check, you know you have categories, you have values, you're good to go.